# too_soon
This is a somewhat contemporaneous account of the idiosynchratic elimination of my position as a Research Scholar, under the supervision of Dr. Alexandra Badea at Duke University.

24 June 2025 (Tuesday)

As is widely known in the research community and amongst acedemic instutions, conventional funding sources have become a bleak landscape since the ascension of the new administration at the beginning of this year (2025). In addition to reduced budget for funding, and the fact that universities are also grappling with new parameters indirects from grants, the disruptions to the grant funding process have been quite disrupted over the past several months. Grant applications that would typical have been reviewed, approved, and finalized over the course of several months are now experiencing an additional state of limbo for time frames that research infrastructure was not designed to endure en masse. The Duke University School of Medicine has explicitly communicated to those of us in the research community that they are implementing various mechanisms to help minimize disruptions to research, although at the same time finding the need to reduce the budget and workforce of non-grant funded entities and positions. It would be wonderful to believe that they are sincerely pursuing their stated commitment to research and researchers, but in my personal experience, that is sadly not the case.


Like many labs, being comfortably funded is something that few get to enjoy for any extended period of time. While grants have durations of various lengths, a common timeframe is a 5-year grant cycle. The period in whence a research group enters the latter years and months of these cycles can be the most tenuous and stressful, as the pressure to find new and/or renewed sources of money to carry on the work slowly builds. This has been the position Dr. Alexandra Badea's group has been dealing with over the last year. Working along side Alexandra is her husband, Dr. Chris Badea and his group, together comprising QIAL, or the Quantitative Imaging and Analysis Lab. While in many aspects they have separate research enterprises, there is also some overlap between the two, and positions that might be officially under one of them can often function as a shared resource, with funding coming from both. What of is of note here is that their funding can in some cases be more fluid, and a grant awarded to either of them might be available to personel working more frequently with the other.

When otherwise the Drs. Badea would have long known the status of their various grant applications, they are still awaiting the outcome for 3 grants between them with promising scores, one of which, submitted by Chris has been all but officially funded for several weeks. However, all the delays have accumulated to the point where they are already causing significant disruption to the research efforts of QIAL. Notably, Dr. Zay Hahn was forced to find alternative employment when a delay of approximately 15 days put his immigration status in a very risky position.

This loss comes at a time that QIAL has seen many team members move on due to graduation or funding issues. The past year has seen the loss two valuable post docs, two graduate students, and the aforementioned Dr. Hahn, who played the critical role of caring for QIAL's mouse colonies and performing any surgeries the research called for.

This brings us to my current situation. I, by far, have been the most senior member of the QIAL team apart from the Chris and Alex, having worked with Alex when I originally first came to Duke in 2014, and our research was under the umbrella of CIVM, or the Center for In Vivo Microscopy. Of the past 11 years, roughly 7-8 of those have seen me directly involved in Alex's research activities. Not only have a built critical data processing infrastructure during that time, I have essentially become infrastructure myself. The knowledge transfer needed if I were to leave QIAL would be an onerous task, and my absence would create vacuum that would severely disrupt the lab's research activities, on top of the other losses recently experienced. Particularly with the loss of Dr. Hahn and myself, it is difficult to see how Alexandra would be able to practically carry on research, as it seems the role of caring for the mice and processing and handling the majority of the data would fall on her shoulders.

It is then curious to learn that my position has been preemptively cut, an act that can be considered irreversible thanks to the supposed hiring freeze (though it is known that exceptions are possible, as was the case when Dr. Hahn left QIAL and moved to another lab within Duke). The status of the funding of the lab and specifically my position has been an open topic between Alexandra and me, which is not unexpected, as it is a topic that impacts both of us profoundly. She has also often sought my advice and assistance in regards to various and possibly create ways we might be able to continue doing research together.

I have been touched how she has personally advocated and fought on my behalf to keep me funded and employed. In many cases, it is only after the fact do I become aware of battles she has been fighting behind the seens. While it did not occur to me to document it at the time, sometime around mid- to late-May, I believe, was when I first heard that their was pressure, specifically from Amina Dixon in the Radiology HR department, to close out my position within several months.

With the prospect of having one or more of the three pending grants being funded, it was reasonably likely that there would in short order be external money from NIH to pay my salary for the next several years. Given the unnecessary damage and interruptions that would be experienced by my departure, Alexandra rightfully lobbied to delay any such drastic actions until the funding situation could be settled.

Despite all logic, and in spite of Dr. Badea's efforts to protect her resources and research interests, on 6 June 2025, I received an email containing a letter officially notifying me that, due to current funding for my position running out on 1 November 2025, my position would be officially closed on that date. The letter also served as my official 60-day notice.

The fact remains that my position was preemptively eliminated almost 3 months before 2 September 2025, the latest date the department would have been able to give me the 60-day notice. If protecting the research efforts under its perview was truly what Duke University pursued as a matter of policy, one would could reasonably expect that only after all possible avenues of funding had been exhausted, it would be much closer to 1 September before the final decision to close my position would be rendered. This is peculiuar, given that there at least 3 potential funding sources, if not more, that have yet to be resolved. And the existence of these were well known to Amina Dixon and those above her leading up to and on 6 June, when the closure of my position was finalized. Even in the meantime, the means for a temporary extension of my position for at least 4 more months and into early 2026 has arisen and been secured. Who knows what options might come up over the next two months, but it is clearly not impossible viable funding sources might avail themselves to us. So the real question is: Why would Duke University be so quick to get rid of a considerably valuable research asset?

Shortly after I received my notice, on 10 June 2025 the Duke School of Medicine held a virtual town hall (a recording of this can be found here: https://warpwire.duke.edu/w/ZeMIAA/). A town hall is exactly the venue where the decisions that led to my quite premature termination can be publicly held to account. I took the opportunity to submit a question, first via the online form made available to the employees immediately before the town hall, and also via the Zoom chat feature, which was the method for submitting questions live. A moderator responded to my question, indicating that it would be passed on to Duke leadership and town hall panel members. I have yet to be contacted in any way addressing my concerns.

It was in this town hall that a few critical details were made clear to me that I had been uncertain of before. I had known that Duke was by necessity needing to downsize certain aspects of their operations by a considerable amount. However, what I hadn't known previously was that 
 
